---
title: The Source of All Wealth
date: '2018-08-15T18:30:00+07:00'
cover: 6.jpg
slug: source-of-all-wealth
category: Glory of God
tags:
  - God
  - Satan
  - wealth
---
## From whence doth wealth arise?

[Satan ultimately sources money](https://www.sourceofallwealth.com/source-of-all-money), but from whom do we find wealth's source? Should we simply equate money with wealth? I would argue 'no' because money only serves as a representation of wealth rather than the wealth itself. Even gold and silver have only limited intrinsic value within themselves. And paper money has no value in itself other than the insignificant value of the paper.

A cow has significant value because it provides milk or meat. Green strips of paper possess no value -- and thus provide no 'wealth' within themselves.

So who makes the cow? Who makes the grass and grain it eats? Who gives it the air to breath and the sun to bring it warmth? Who gives it the farmer to care for it?  Who gives the structure to the cells in its body? Who designs the process inside it for producing milk?

Obviously we can only answer, 'God.' Some may answer 'evolution,' but I think we can [debunk that fantasy](https://answersingenesis.org/) via concerted study.

## Who rules what?

Satan rules the world system via his sourcing of money. But God the Creator of all things rules the world, the universe and even over Satan himself.

God has chosen to use Satan for a season — the time of Adam’s fall until the return of Jesus Christ — to manifest His glory to His people.

## God's purpose for Satan

So why in the world would God in all His goodness and purity allow the ‘Dark One’ to rule over the affairs of men?  [Westminster’s shorter catechism](https://prts.edu/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Shorter_Catechism.pdf) via its elegant summation of the Bible’s teachings provides a possible clue:

“Q. 1. What is the chief end of man?

A. Man’s chief end is to glorify God, and to enjoy him forever.”

We see God made man’s primary purpose the glorification of God.  I extrapolate that God also wants his angels to do the same.  God, above every other consideration, desires complete glory towards Himself.  For anyone besides God, we would call such a desire conceited and illegitimate, yet for God we call this desire totally justifiable.

The sin-ridden fall of Adam & Eve led to mankind's hopeless separation from God.  Yet from that catastrophe, God gains an incredible vehicle through which He can facilitate glory towards Himself — namely, His Son Jesus on the cross of Calvary, made necessary because of the fall.  And, with the death, burial, resurrection and ascension of Christ, humanity and the angelic hosts find a cornucopia of opportunities in which we can cast glory toward the throne of our Creator.

Thus God uses the horrific rottenness, decay, destruction, thievery, murder, warfare and ruin from Satan throughout these past thousands of years to ultimately lift up the Name of our Creator as He slowly but surely brings His chosen sons and daughters to glory in the midst of the awfulness.

## Bringing Forth Glory

Thus God, the “source of all wealth” allows Satan, the “source of all money” to operate via the mighty sociopathic central bankers he has empowered to rule the world.  The devil uses them to apportion a waterfall of woeful ills upon the hoi polloi.  And, among those suffering peoples of the world, from time to time there arise individuals who throw off that emplaced yoke of Satan and his emissaries.   They allow Jesus to place His Holy Spirit within them via their trust in His blood substitution upon the Cross for their sins.  In doing so, they offer up a sweet-smelling fragrance of glory to the Lord.  

And of course, one Day soon, Jesus will return to claim all the world back under His complete Lordship and Kingship.  He will vanguish that Serpent, casting him and his servants into the lake of fire, and bring His people home to him for all of eternity — receiving everlasting glory from their praise and adoration toward Him.
